rest-api.md, before:

Title: Intens simulation REST API
Author: Timo Korvola
Comment: This is a Multimarkdown document.

# Intens simulation REST API

## HTTP requests

### `default/`

- GET returns list of defined defaults (names only, maybe
  `?values=true` to return also values).
- PUT with an object replaces all defaults.

#### `default/`*x*

- PUT, GET, DELETE
- Default value for input *x*

### `jobs/`

- GET returns list of defined jobs (names only, `?status=true` to
  return also statuses).
- POST defines a new job, returns `201 Created` with `Location` header
  and *id* in body.  Request content is input values.
- DELETE deletes all jobs.

#### `jobs/`*id*

- GET returns status
- DELETE cancels and removes all persistent resources.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/inputs/`

- Access to input values.  Works like `default/` but read only.  Two
  possibilities:
    1. the defaults are copied here when job is created, or
    2. it is not permitted to modify defaults while jobs exist.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/error`

- Error details of failed simulations.  Only available if status is
  failed.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/results/`

- Access to simulation results.  Works like `default/` but read only.
- Only available if status is done.
- Accessing results before simulation finishes either returns 404 (or
  maybe 409 Conflict or 503 Service unavailable) or waits.
- Accessing results of failed computations returns 404 or maybe 410 Gone.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/dir/`*path*

- List the working directory of a job (if path is empty) or a
  subdirectory.  Returns a list of [name, type]
  pairs, where type is "-" for a regular file, "d" for a
  directory, "l" for a symlink and "?" for unknown.
- The file API is experimental, even more so than the rest.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/file/`*path*

- Retrieve a file from the working directory of job (for debugging).
  The file is sent as is.  MIME type may be guessed or something
  generic.  This is for regular files, so path cannot be empty;
  for directories, see above.
- The file API is experimental, even more so than the rest.

## Types & such

- Client & simulator back end are expected to agree on the names and
  types of inputs and outputs.  Communicating that info is not part of
  this API.
- Inputs and outputs can be any JSON types.
- Time series are not directly supported but can be passed as *n* by 2
  arrays (nested).
- Job statuses:
    * SCHEDULED: waiting to start
    * RUNNING: started, log available
    * DONE: succesful termination, results available
    * CANCELLED: trying to stop it, will delete once stopped
    * FAILED: terminated in error, no results
    * INVALID: somehow corrupt

## Socket.IO API

- Experimental, even more so than HTTP.
- The server emits task-related events:
    * `launched` jobid,
    * `terminated {"job":` jobid, `"status":` st`}` where st is
      `"done"`, `"failed"` or `"cancelled"`.
- Later versions may introduce also commands.  Currently this is just
  server to client; client to server goes over HTTP.

Commit message:

Edit the file API a bit.
Rename "file" -> "files" in the URL pattern.  Specify loosely enough
to allow redirecting to specialised static file server.  The "files"
part, in its vagueness, is perhaps now somewhat stable.  The "dir"
part is highly experimental and may get dropped or changed.

rest-api.md, after:

Title: Intens simulation REST API
Author: Timo Korvola
Comment: This is a Multimarkdown document.

# Intens simulation REST API

## HTTP requests

### `default/`

- GET returns list of defined defaults (names only, maybe
  `?values=true` to return also values).
- PUT with an object replaces all defaults.

#### `default/`*x*

- PUT, GET, DELETE
- Default value for input *x*

### `jobs/`

- GET returns list of defined jobs (names only, `?status=true` to
  return also statuses).
- POST defines a new job, returns `201 Created` with `Location` header
  and *id* in body.  Request content is input values.
- DELETE deletes all jobs.

#### `jobs/`*id*

- GET returns status
- DELETE cancels and removes all persistent resources.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/inputs/`

- Access to input values.  Works like `default/` but read only.  Two
  possibilities:
    1. the defaults are copied here when job is created, or
    2. it is not permitted to modify defaults while jobs exist.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/error`

- Error details of failed simulations.  Only available if status is
  failed.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/results/`

- Access to simulation results.  Works like `default/` but read only.
- Only available if status is done.
- Accessing results before simulation finishes either returns 404 (or
  maybe 409 Conflict or 503 Service unavailable) or waits.
- Accessing results of failed computations returns 404 or maybe 410 Gone.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/files/`*path*

- Retrieve a file from the working directory of a job (for debugging).
  The file is sent as is.  MIME type may be guessed or something
  generic.
- It is not specified what happens if path refers to a directory (is
  empty or ends in a slash).  The server may produce a HTML directory
  listing to facilitate access with a regular web browser.
- These URLs may redirect to a location that the server associates
  with static files.  The static files may be served by a differnent
  server that is more efficient with them.

##### `jobs/`*id*`/dir/`*path*

- List the working directory of a job (if path is empty) or a
  subdirectory.  Returns a list of [name, type]
  pairs, where type is "-" for a regular file, "d" for a
  directory, "l" for a symlink and "?" for unknown.
- This API is experimental, even more so than the rest.

## Types & such

- Client & simulator back end are expected to agree on the names and
  types of inputs and outputs.  Communicating that info is not part of
  this API.
- Inputs and outputs can be any JSON types.
- Time series are not directly supported but can be passed as *n* by 2
  arrays (nested).
- Job statuses:
    * SCHEDULED: waiting to start
    * RUNNING: started, log available
    * DONE: succesful termination, results available
    * CANCELLED: trying to stop it, will delete once stopped
    * FAILED: terminated in error, no results
    * INVALID: somehow corrupt

## Socket.IO API

- Experimental, even more so than HTTP.
- The server emits task-related events:
    * `launched` jobid,
    * `terminated {"job":` jobid, `"status":` st`}` where st is
      `"done"`, `"failed"` or `"cancelled"`.
- Later versions may introduce also commands.  Currently this is just
  server to client; client to server goes over HTTP.
